docs/docsite/rst/filter_guide_working_with_unicode.rst, before:

Working with Unicode
---------------------

`Unicode <https://unicode.org/main.html>`_ makes it possible to produce two strings which may be visually equivalent, but are comprised of distinctly different characters/character sequences. To address this ``Unicode`` defines `normalization forms <https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/>`_ which avoid these distinctions by choosing a unique character sequence for a given visual representation.

You can use the ``community.general.unicode_normalize`` filter to normalize ``Unicode`` strings within your playbooks.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Compare Unicode representations
      debug:
        msg: "{{ with_combining_character | community.general.unicode_normalize == without_combining_character }}"
      vars:
        with_combining_character: "{{ 'Mayagu\u0308ez' }}"
        without_combining_character: Mayagüez

This produces:

.. code-block:: ansible-output

    TASK [Compare Unicode representations] ********************************************************
    ok: [localhost] => {
        "msg": true
    }

The ``community.general.unicode_normalize`` filter accepts a keyword argument to select the ``Unicode`` form used to normalize the input string.

:form: One of ``'NFC'`` (default), ``'NFD'``, ``'NFKC'``, or ``'NFKD'``. See the `Unicode reference <https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/>`_ for more information.

.. versionadded:: 3.7.0

Commit message:

Add more default license and copyright notices (#5087)
* Add more default license and copyright notices.

* Fix tests.

* Fix typos.

* Fix task type.

* Add URL to changelog fragment.

* Improve headers for setup_wildfly_server.

docs/docsite/rst/filter_guide_working_with_unicode.rst, after:

..
  Copyright (c) Ansible Project
  GNU General Public License v3.0+ (see LICENSES/GPL-3.0-or-later.txt or https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt)
  SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later

Working with Unicode
---------------------

`Unicode <https://unicode.org/main.html>`_ makes it possible to produce two strings which may be visually equivalent, but are comprised of distinctly different characters/character sequences. To address this ``Unicode`` defines `normalization forms <https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/>`_ which avoid these distinctions by choosing a unique character sequence for a given visual representation.

You can use the ``community.general.unicode_normalize`` filter to normalize ``Unicode`` strings within your playbooks.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Compare Unicode representations
      debug:
        msg: "{{ with_combining_character | community.general.unicode_normalize == without_combining_character }}"
      vars:
        with_combining_character: "{{ 'Mayagu\u0308ez' }}"
        without_combining_character: Mayagüez

This produces:

.. code-block:: ansible-output

    TASK [Compare Unicode representations] ********************************************************
    ok: [localhost] => {
        "msg": true
    }

The ``community.general.unicode_normalize`` filter accepts a keyword argument to select the ``Unicode`` form used to normalize the input string.

:form: One of ``'NFC'`` (default), ``'NFD'``, ``'NFKC'``, or ``'NFKD'``. See the `Unicode reference <https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/>`_ for more information.

.. versionadded:: 3.7.0
